Healthcare infrastructure (e.g., network, Electronic Medical Records, medical imaging
systems); and General-purpose computing platforms.

While cybersecurity controls may increase the complexity of interfaces to allow for
interoperability, when properly implemented, the cybersecurity controls can help ensure
that these capabilities remain safe and effective. Cybersecurity controls should be used as
a means to allow for the safe and effective exchange and use of information. Additionally,
cybersecurity controls should not be intended to prohibit a user from accessing their
device data.

When common technology and communication protocols are used to enable
interoperability (e.g., Bluetooth, Bluetooth Low Energy, network protocols), device
manufacturers should assess whether added security controls beneath such
communication are needed to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device.

4. Third-Party Software Components

As discussed in FDA's guidance "Off-The-Shelf (OTS) Software Use in Medical Devices,"
medical devices commonly include third-party software components, including
off-the-shelf and open source software. When these components are incorporated,
security risks of the software components should become factors of the overall medical
device system risk management processes and documentation.

As part of demonstrating compliance with design and development under Subclause 7.3
of ISO 13485, and to support supply chain risk management processes, all software,
including those developed by the device manufacturer ("proprietary software") or
obtained from third parties, should be assessed for cybersecurity risk. Device
manufacturers should document all software components of a device and address or
otherwise mitigate risks associated with these software components.

In addition, under Subclause 7.4 of ISO 13485, a manufacturer must put in place processes
and controls to ensure that its suppliers conform to the manufacturer's requirements. Such
information is documented in the Design and Development Files, required by Subclause
7.3.10, and Medical Device File, required by Subclause 4.2.3. This documentation
demonstrates the device's overall compliance with the QMSR, as well as that the
third-party components meet specifications established for the device.
