Source: OWASP Agentic Security Initiative, "Agentic AI -- Threats and Mitigations" v1.0
-- "Example Threat Models: Enterprise Co-Pilots" (page 43). Verbatim.
SHA-256 of the full source PDF: 65e3bd59f99c411b055c6caf2bac96ab361dff8c010e4bef532a593ce10345ff
Retrieved: 2026-09-22T13:42:28Z from https://genai.owasp.org/download/45674/

---

An Enterprise Copilot is an agent which is connected to the user's personal enterprise
environment including emails, files, calendar, or internal enterprise systems such as CRM,
IT Requests, etc. to chats. In addition, Enterprise Copilot can assist the user with common
tasks such as creating calendar events, streamlining workflows and providing contextual
insights.

T1 - Memory Poisoning Risk: The attacker poisons the agent's memory over time, causing it
to issue unintended behavior across sessions. Example: Through IPI the attacker poisons
the memory of the copilot. Gaining persistent means to exfiltrate data every time the user
engages with the agent.

T2 - Tool Misuse Risk: The attacker exploits an integrated tool for malicious purposes.
Example: Through an Indirect Prompt Injection, an attacker abuses the copilot's ability to
read through personal user data to search for sensitive information, then exploiting the
calendar tool to exfiltrate the data via a calendar invite sent to the attacker.

T3 - Privilege Compromise Risk: Through tool or agent misconfiguration that violates
principle of least privilege, an attacker can perform unauthorized actions. Example:
Through a misconfiguration in the agent, an attacker can execute queries in the RAG
database to access files and data it shouldn't be able to access.

T6 - Intent Breaking & Goal Manipulation Risk: The attacker changes or manipulates the
intent and goals of the copilot to perform nefarious actions. Example 1: Using an Indirect
Prompt Injection through the email inbox an attacker uses the agent to search for
sensitive data and instructs it to render a link to the user containing said data. The data is
then leaked when the user clicks on the link.
