Source: CISA, "Zero Trust Maturity Model" Version 2.0 (April 2023) -- pages 9-10,
maturity-stage definitions and pillar overview. Verbatim.
SHA-256 of the full source PDF: 4a95fdff55a64e2468b69af075b7f208176b88c751af92aefc3b7dacad26fdb4
Retrieved: 2026-09-22T13:42:28Z from https://www.cisa.gov/sites/default/files/2023-04/zero_trust_maturity_model_v2_508.pdf

---

Agencies should use the following guiding criteria of each stage to identify maturity for
each zero trust technology pillar and provide consistency across the maturity model:

Traditional -- manually configured lifecycles (i.e., from establishment to decommissioning)
and assignments of attributes (security and logging); static security policies and solutions
that address one pillar at a time with discrete dependencies on external systems; least
privilege established only at provisioning; siloed pillars of policy enforcement; manual
response and mitigation deployment; and limited correlation of dependencies, logs, and
telemetry.

Initial -- starting automation of attribute assignment and configuration of lifecycles,
policy decisions and enforcement, and initial cross-pillar solutions with integration of
external systems; some responsive changes to least privilege after provisioning; and
aggregated visibility for internal systems.

Advanced -- wherever applicable, automated controls for lifecycle and assignment of
configurations and policies with cross-pillar coordination; centralized visibility and
identity control; policy enforcement integrated across pillars; response to pre-defined
mitigations; changes to least privilege based on risk and posture assessments; and
building toward enterprise-wide awareness (including externally hosted resources).

Optimal -- fully automated, just-in-time lifecycles and assignments of attributes to assets
and resources that self-report with dynamic policies based on automated/observed
triggers; dynamic least privilege access (just-enough and within thresholds) for assets and
their respective dependencies enterprise-wide; cross-pillar interoperability with
continuous monitoring; and centralized visibility with comprehensive situational
awareness.

These maturity stages and the details associated with each pillar allow agencies to assess,
plan, and maintain the investments needed to progress toward a ZTA. Subsections 0-5.5
provide high-level information to support agencies in transitioning to zero trust across the
five different pillars: Identity, Devices, Networks, Applications and Workloads, and Data.
Each pillar also includes general details regarding Visibility and Analytics, Automation and
Orchestration, and Governance capabilities to support integration with that pillar and
across the model.

These three cross-cutting capabilities highlight activities to support interoperability of
functions across pillars. Figure 4 provides a high-level overview of the ZTMM, including key
aspects of the pillar-specific functions for each pillar and across each maturity stage.
