Source: IRS Publication 1, "Your Rights as a Taxpayer" (Rev. 9-2017) -- the ten-item
Taxpayer Bill of Rights (page 1). Verbatim.
SHA-256 of the full source PDF: b76c98a904265a8a25b0fd1a6cfebfe03dd29c1da4c661f2808515ae01c440ac
Retrieved: 2026-09-22T13:42:28Z from https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p1.pdf

---

1. The Right to Be Informed
Taxpayers have the right to know what they need to do to comply with the tax laws. They
are entitled to clear explanations of the laws and IRS procedures in all tax forms,
instructions, publications, notices, and correspondence.

2. The Right to Quality Service
Taxpayers have the right to receive prompt, courteous, and professional assistance in
their dealings with the IRS, to be spoken to in a way they can easily understand, to receive
clear and easily understandable communications from the IRS, and to speak to a
supervisor about inadequate service.

3. The Right to Pay No More than the Correct Amount of Tax
Taxpayers have the right to pay only the amount of tax legally due, including interest and
penalties, and to have the IRS apply all tax payments properly.

4. The Right to Challenge the IRS's Position and Be Heard
Taxpayers have the right to raise objections and provide additional documentation in
response to formal IRS actions or proposed actions, to expect that the IRS will consider
their timely objections and documentation promptly and fairly, and to receive a response
if the IRS does not agree with their position.

5. The Right to Appeal an IRS Decision in an Independent Forum
Taxpayers are entitled to a fair and impartial administrative appeal of most IRS decisions,
including many penalties, and have the right to receive a written response regarding the
Office of Appeals' decision.

6. The Right to Finality
Taxpayers have the right to know the maximum amount of time they have to challenge
the IRS's position as well as the maximum amount of time the IRS has to audit a particular
tax year or collect a tax debt.

7. The Right to Privacy
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any IRS inquiry, examination, or enforcement
action will comply with the law and be no more intrusive than necessary.

8. The Right to Confidentiality
Taxpayers have the right to expect that any information they provide to the IRS will not be
disclosed unless authorized by the taxpayer or by law.

9. The Right to Retain Representation
Taxpayers have the right to retain an authorized representative of their choice to
represent them in their dealings with the IRS. Taxpayers have the right to seek assistance
from a Low Income Taxpayer Clinic if they cannot afford representation.

10. The Right to a Fair and Just Tax System
Taxpayers have the right to expect the tax system to consider facts and circumstances
that might affect their underlying liabilities, ability to pay, or ability to provide
information timely.
