
Additional Resources

For some types of cases, the appeals process and available court actions are different
than a tax deficiency or claim disallowance case, which are overwhelmingly the most
common disputes in Appeals. The letter that you received from the IRS proposing the
changes may contain important information about the appeal rights available to you for
your specific type of case, including how to request an appeal and what will happen if you
decide not to appeal.

If your case involves one of the issues listed in the table on this page, refer to the
appropriate publication for specific guidance.

If your case involves a change in tax-exempt status, refer to Publication 892, How to
Appeal an IRS Determination on Tax-Exempt Status.

If your case involves an employee plans examination change, refer to Publication 1020,
Appeal Procedures Employee Plans Examinations.

If your case involves an employment tax examination change, refer to Publication 5146,
Employment Tax Returns: Examinations and Appeal Rights.

If your case involves disqualification of a retirement plan, refer to Publication 5153,
Appeal Procedures: Adverse Determination Letter on Qualification of a Retirement Plan.

If You Don't Agree

Before you request an appeal, make sure that you have provided the IRS employee
handling your case with any information, documents, and explanations that the
employee requested, or that you would like the IRS to consider.

If you don't agree with the changes proposed by the IRS, you may contact the IRS
employee identified in the letter you received to discuss the issues. Generally, if you
cannot reach an agreement with the IRS employee, you may request a discussion with the
employee's supervisor. If you still don't agree after your attempts to resolve the matter
with the IRS employee and/or supervisor, you may request Fast Track Settlement (FTS) if
your case qualifies, or an administrative appeal with Appeals.

If You Do Nothing

An examination of your income, estate (and generation-skipping transfer), gift (and
generation-skipping transfer), or certain excise taxes or penalties, with a proposed
deficiency will result in the IRS sending you a notice of deficiency allowing you a limited
time to petition the U.S. Tax Court for redetermination.

An examination of your employment tax liabilities will result in the IRS sending you a bill
for the amount due relating to issues not reviewable by the U.S. Tax Court.
