A workload is a collection of resources and code that delivers business value, such as an
application or backend process. Your workload can have applications, operational tools,
and components that require credentials to make requests to AWS services, such as
requests to read data from Amazon S3. When you're building on an AWS compute service,
such as Amazon EC2 or Lambda, AWS delivers the temporary credentials of an IAM role to
that compute resource. Applications written using an AWS SDK will discover and use these
temporary credentials to access AWS resources, and there is no need to distribute long
lived credentials for an IAM user to your workloads running on AWS.

Workloads that run outside of AWS, such as your on-premises servers, servers from other
cloud providers, or managed continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD)
platforms, can still use temporary credentials. However, you'll need to deliver these
temporary credentials to your workload. The following are ways you can deliver
temporary credentials to your workloads:

You can use IAM Roles Anywhere to request temporary AWS credentials for your workload
using an X.509 Certificate from your public key infrastructure (PKI).

You can call the AWS STS AssumeRoleWithSAML API to request temporary AWS credentials
for your workload using a SAML assertion from an external identity provider (IdP) that is
configured within your AWS account.

You can call the AWS STS AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity API to request temporary AWS
credentials for your workload using a JSON web token (JWT) from an IdP that is
configured within your AWS account.

You can request temporary AWS credentials from your IoT device using Mutual Transport
Layer Security (MTLS) authentication using AWS IoT Core.

Some AWS services also support integrations to deliver temporary credentials to your
workloads running outside of AWS:

Amazon Elastic Container Service (Amazon ECS) Anywhere lets you run Amazon ECS tasks
on your own compute resources, and delivers temporary AWS credentials to your Amazon
ECS tasks running on those compute resources.

Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service Hybrid Nodes lets you join your compute resources
running outside of AWS as nodes to an Amazon EKS cluster. Amazon EKS can deliver
temporary credentials to the Amazon EKS pods running on your compute resources.

AWS Systems Manager Hybrid Activations lets you manage your compute resources
running outside of AWS using SSM, and delivers temporary AWS credentials to the SSM
agent running on your compute resources.

We recommend using IAM roles for human users and workloads that access your AWS
resources so that they use temporary credentials. However, for scenarios in which you
need an IAM user or root user in your account, require MFA for additional security.
