STEP 1: Scope the Organizational Profile

Overview: The scope defines the high-level facts, assumptions, and constraints on which
the Profiles will be based. The first step is to convene stakeholders from across the
enterprise with the perspective and authority to collect risk and workforce data,
articulate needs, and execute identified risk responses. The purpose of the group will be
to define the scope of the effort, align security risks to the enterprise mission, and make
informed risk and workforce decisions based upon current and desired risk context,
priorities, budget, etc.

Sample activities in this step:

1. Identify accountable leads from board-level, executive leadership, cybersecurity,
enterprise risk management, and workforce management teams and establish an initial
process timeline.

2. Review the organization's mission, goals, objectives and high-level priorities.

3. Conduct/review the business impact analysis (BIA), which includes identifying high
value assets that are critical to achieving organizational objectives.

4. Establish change management protocols and executive sponsorship to ensure
cross-functional collaboration among teams.

5. Identify third-party dependencies and include their workforce capabilities in scope.

Notes:

An organization may use several Profiles. Each Profile can have a distinct scope (e.g.,
enterprise, system), which defines the high-level facts and assumptions on which the
Profile is based.

Stakeholder teams convened in this step may or may not have experience working closely
together. Efforts should be made to obtain a shared understanding of each unit's roles,
responsibilities, and internal processes and to create a high performing team.

Organizations may find it beneficial to pilot the process described in this QSG by
beginning with a subset of CSF outcomes.

Relevant CSF Core Category: Organizational Context (GV.OC). The circumstances --
mission, stakeholder expectations, dependencies, and legal, regulatory, and contractual
requirements -- surrounding the organization's cybersecurity risk management decisions
are understood.
