Source: NIST AI 100-1, "Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI RMF 1.0)"
Pages 22-23 (PDF pages 27-28 of nist_ai_rmf_1.0.pdf). Verbatim, only de-hyphenating
line-wrap breaks (e.g. "GOV-ERN" -> "GOVERN") for readability -- no wording changed.
SHA-256 of the full source PDF: 7576edb531d9848825814ee88e28b1795d3a84b435b4b797d3670eafdc4a89f1
Retrieved: 2026-09-22T13:42:28Z from https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/ai/nist.ai.100-1.pdf

---

GOVERN is a cross-cutting function that is infused throughout AI risk management and
enables the other functions of the process. Aspects of GOVERN, especially those related to
compliance or evaluation, should be integrated into each of the other functions. Attention
to governance is a continual and intrinsic requirement for effective AI risk management
over an AI system's lifespan and the organization's hierarchy.

Strong governance can drive and enhance internal practices and norms to facilitate
organizational risk culture. Governing authorities can determine the overarching policies
that direct an organization's mission, goals, values, culture, and risk tolerance. Senior
leadership sets the tone for risk management within an organization, and with it,
organizational culture. Management aligns the technical aspects of AI risk management
to policies and operations. Documentation can enhance transparency, improve human
review processes, and bolster accountability in AI system teams.

After putting in place the structures, systems, processes, and teams described in the
GOVERN function, organizations should benefit from a purpose-driven culture focused on
risk understanding and management. It is incumbent on Framework users to continue to
execute the GOVERN function as knowledge, cultures, and needs or expectations from AI
actors evolve over time.

Practices related to governing AI risks are described in the NIST AI RMF Playbook. Table
1 lists the GOVERN function's categories and subcategories.

Table 1: Categories and subcategories for the GOVERN function.

GOVERN 1: Policies, processes, procedures, and practices across the organization related
to the mapping, measuring, and managing of AI risks are in place, transparent, and
implemented effectively.

GOVERN 1.1: Legal and regulatory requirements involving AI are understood, managed,
and documented.

GOVERN 1.2: The characteristics of trustworthy AI are integrated into organizational
policies, processes, procedures, and practices.

GOVERN 1.3: Processes, procedures, and practices are in place to determine the needed
level of risk management activities based on the organization's risk tolerance.

GOVERN 1.4: The risk management process and its outcomes are established through
transparent policies, procedures, and other controls based on organizational risk priorities.

GOVERN 1.5: Ongoing monitoring and periodic review of the risk management process
and its outcomes are planned and organizational roles and responsibilities clearly defined,
including determining the frequency of periodic review.

GOVERN 1.6: Mechanisms are in place to inventory AI systems and are resourced
according to organizational risk priorities.

GOVERN 1.7: Processes and procedures are in place for decommissioning and phasing out
AI systems safely and in a manner that does not increase risks or decrease the
organization's trustworthiness.

GOVERN 2: Accountability structures are in place so that the appropriate teams and
individuals are empowered, responsible, and trained for mapping, measuring, and
managing AI risks.

GOVERN 2.1: Roles and responsibilities and lines of communication related to mapping,
measuring, and managing AI risks are documented and are clear to individuals and teams
throughout the organization.

GOVERN 2.2: The organization's personnel and partners receive AI risk management
training to enable them to perform their duties and responsibilities consistent with related
policies, procedures, and agreements.

GOVERN 2.3: Executive leadership of the organization takes responsibility for decisions
about risks associated with AI system development and deployment.

GOVERN 3: Workforce diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility processes are
prioritized in the mapping, measuring, and managing of AI risks throughout the lifecycle.

GOVERN 3.1: Decision-making related to mapping, measuring, and managing AI risks
throughout the lifecycle is informed by a diverse team (e.g., diversity of demographics,
disciplines, experience, expertise, and backgrounds).
