Source: FDA, "Postmarket Management of Cybersecurity in Medical Devices" -- ISAO
participation + Scope sections (page 8). Verbatim.
SHA-256 of the full source PDF: cf373dbe12c45896df215107477f9c2034c00dc0953f6b4cb76133be573cd0c1
Retrieved: 2026-09-22T13:42:28Z from https://www.fda.gov/files/medical%20devices/published/Postmarket-Management-of-Cybersecurity-in-Medical-Devices---Guidance-for-Industry-and-Food-and-Drug-Administration-Staff.pdf

---

The Agency wishes to promote collaboration among the medical device and Health IT
community to develop a shared understanding of the risks posed by cybersecurity
vulnerabilities to medical devices and foster the development of a shared understanding
of risk assessment to enable stakeholders to consistently and efficiently assess patient
safety and public health risks associated with identified cybersecurity vulnerabilities and
take timely, appropriate action to mitigate the risks. This approach will also enable
stakeholders to provide timely situational awareness to the HPH community and take
efforts to preemptively address the cybersecurity vulnerability through appropriate
mitigation and/or remediation before it impacts the safety, effectiveness, integrity or
security of medical devices and the Health IT infrastructure.

The Agency considers voluntary participation in an ISAO a critical component of a medical
device manufacturer's comprehensive proactive approach to management of postmarket
cybersecurity threats and vulnerabilities and a significant step towards assuring the
ongoing safety and effectiveness of marketed medical devices. For companies that
actively participate in such a program, and follow other recommendations in this
guidance, the Agency does not intend to enforce certain reporting requirements of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) (see Section VII).

More information about active participation in an ISAO can be found in Section IX.

III. Scope

This guidance applies to any marketed and distributed medical device including: 1) medical
devices that contain software (including firmware) or programmable logic; and 2) software
that is a medical device, including mobile medical applications. In addition, this guidance
applies to medical devices that are considered part of an interoperable system and to
"legacy devices," i.e., devices that are already on the market or in use.

This guidance supplements the information addressed in the FDA guidance document
titled "Cybersecurity for Networked Medical Devices Containing Off-the-Shelf (OTS)
Software."
